# econ-research

This repo query Github API to analyse and visualise data.

Some scripts will require your GitHub Personal Access Token. Make sure this is in your environment variables.

On Windows: `set GITHUB_TOKEN=your_token`
On macOS/Linux: `export GITHUB_TOKEN=your_token`

For script that takes in a .csv file as input, remember to change the filename/filepath as needed.

## commits

This folder contains scripts used to collect commmits from a single repo. We aim to collect ALL commits (if possible). For running and testing these scripts, choose a repo with preferably ~ 8000 commits.

- `categorization.py`: Categorize all repos in a .csv file into _Beginner_, _Machine Learning_, _Web Programming_, _Internet of Things_, and _Others_ based on the repos' topic keywords. Currently, each repo only has 1 category based on the first keyword that matches.

- `cat-trend.py`: Generate a time series plot of the number of repos created in each category.

- `collection.py`: Collecting all public repos with more than 1000 forks since the creation of Github in 2007.

- `word-cloud.py`: Generate a word cloud of topic keywords from popular GH repos.

- `word-cloud-yearly`: Generate a word cloud of the most popular topic keywords from popular GH repos created in a year.

### plots

Contains all plots generated by the scripts.

### data

Contains all .csv files generated by the scripts.

## repos

This folder contains scripts used to collect public repos from Github.

- `commits-collection.py`: Collect all commits from a single repo and output a csv file.

- `all-commits-plot-w.py`: Generate a time series plot of number of commits. Each commit is weighted by the number of files changed.

- `time-processing.py`: Categorize each entry in an input commits-\*.csv files based on the time of the commits. Each entry is either **During Work Hours** or **Outside Work Hours**. We currently categorize based on the Los Angeles timezone, without adjustment for daylight savings.

- `message-processing.py`: Generate a time series plot of the most popular words in the commit messages from a .csv file. Common stopwords and automated commits filetered.

- `message-wordcloud`: Generate a word cloud of the most popular words in commit messages from a .csv file.

### plots

Contains all plots generated by the scripts.

### data

Contains all .csv files generated by the scripts.
